[Music]
seems like smartphones get smarter with
each year and it appears that they won't
turn the heat down anytime soon but this
heating can become quite literal if
you're not careful enough with your
device of choice if your phone overheats
regularly this video is what you've been
looking for the last decades were a
wondrous time we went from brick cell
phones that barely fit into our pockets
to tiny devices everyone was always
losing in their bags and purses and then
back to giant cell phones eventually but
with several huge differences they're
smart now sometimes it may seem like
they're smarter than their users with
their ability to find any information in
the blink of an eye run complex
professional programs and even keep a
compelling conversation it's easy to
mistake their processing power with real
intelligence and it's even easier to get
used to the level of comfort and
convenience that they provide to us but
with great power comes inevitable
problems that comfort is fragile enough
to be ruined in mere seconds simply by
the overheating of a smartphone if
you've had a problem like this one the
first thing you should think about is
what's considered overheating in
different environments in relatively hot
weather and even with some air
conditioning your phone can heat up to
110 degrees Fahrenheit with no issue at
all that wouldn't be a huge problem so
don't panic and rush to the tech store
immediately most of the time if a real
problem occurs your smart phone will
display a warning message about
overheating since it can measure its own
temperature via sensors to get all the
information about the precise
temperature from your phone of course
there's an app for that in fact there
are quite a few they won't take much
space and they'll give you all the
information you need if the problem is
real and your smartphone truly overheats
the cause may vary overheating is
generally triggered by electricity
that's running through your smartphone
when it processes something the harder
the process the more electricity it
needs and the more heat it'll generate
the most common cause of Pocket devices
heating up is when they run games you're
collect three or a runner marathon may
be the root of the problems with your
phone modern mobile games are barely
distinctive from slightly older games
for computers and laptops and now
compare the size of a smartphone and an
old PC yeah the hardware in your device
is that much more modern and capable in
that compact size but the size also
limits the venting of the processor and
that'll make it heat up after just a
half hour of continuous playing what
about you what's your favorite game that
keeps you from giving your phone a break
to cool down let me know in the comments
other extreme or demanding processes for
your smartphone are streaming and video
capturing in general just 20 minutes of
streaming will cause your phone to heat
up and if you're not in a cool
environment that'll be a problem this
only gets worse if you keep your
smartphone charging in the process the
thing is it's not only processors that
heat your device up a battery does too
since it's the one and only source of
electricity in a smart phone not
overcharging the battery is a rule of
thumb for any device always keep it at
about 80 to 90 percent charge and it'll
stay in good shape longer if you leave
your phone plugged in excessively you're
asking for trouble you may also want to
keep in mind that closed apps aren't
always fully closed and may continue to
work in the background overloading the
processor with tasks and rapidly sucking
the battery dry some people also say
that wife I can make a processor hot but
that's only true if the connection is
unstable because your phone has to do a
lot of work to keep it established in an
ordinary situation that wouldn't really
be an issue for your device since
they're all well optimized but imagine
that you're trying to stream a gaming
session keeping your browser open and
talking with friends on video chat all
while your phone is charging and on a
bad Wi-Fi connection
yes this is where most of the scary
stories about smartphones overheating
come from in any other circumstances you
probably won't experience any problems
with it unless you live in a really hot
place and use a leather phone case
external heat is another big problem but
the only thing you can do about that is
to avoid direct sunlight on your phone
and remove the case if it's breezy
outside you probably prefer to go for a
walk in a leather jacket and leather
shoes that's because your body generates
heat and leather works to keep it in the
same way it doesn't let in the cold from
the outside it works the same way for
your smartphone as we already know it
also generates heat all the time but now
imagine yourself wearing leather on a
hot summer day
that's not advisable to say the least
just like overheating may be caused by
excessive use of both a processor in a
battery it can also be dangerous with
both of them no your smartphone won't
actually explode but it'll become slower
and start to lose his charge much faster
the only way a battery can explode from
overheating is from a heating loop in
this case external heat causes the
battery to raise its temperature
increasing it to an absurd level which
will produce an explosive reaction in
every meaning of the word every battery
is constantly degrading even if it can
be recharged the average lifespan of a
smartphone battery is just two years
after that it inevitably won't work as
well this includes overheating
especially if you try to use low quality
charging cables they can also be the
culprit behind a battery that's heating
up anything beyond 86 degrees Fahrenheit
will lower the functionality of a phone
to avoid overheating you need to take
care of your phone it helps to use
silicon based phone cases then again if
your smartphone is already overheated
you need to remove the case entirely and
try to cool it down preferably with a
fan don't just put a smartphone in the
fridge that won't help at all only use
high quality cables to charge your phone
and don't charge over the mats
an extra 15 minutes of work won't make
up for the loss if your phone starts to
overheat if it still happens consider
replacing the battery but here comes the
problem with smart phones that have a
solid seamless body in this case all you
can do is ask the manufacturer for a
complete device replacement if it's
still on the warranty try lowering the
brightness of your phone screen it'll
not only prevent overheating but it will
also be a good way to preserve your
battery's life you may even win back
those 15 minutes you lost when you
didn't charge your device to 100% you
can also close all those background apps
that are continuously working and
loading up the processor if you don't
need Wi-Fi or Bluetooth or the
connection leaves you wishing for more
turn them off this will also help
prevent overheating if you can open up
the back side of your phone you can
clean out the dust that typically
collects there on a scale this small all
dust will work like feathers in a puffy
jacket locking all the heat inside and
preventing the phone from cooling down
blow it away with a can of pressurized
air you can find these in almost every
tech store in your area and finally if
you can't find any particular source for
the heat and you've noticed that your
smartphone isn't that smart anymore
you've probably used this phone for a
while now and it may be a good time to
move on over all new smartphone models
are much better protected from heat and
are made with all the preventive
measures already hardwired into them hey
here's my number call me maybe on your
new smartphone hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
the right and remember stay on the
bright side of life